- [Instructor] So we've defined our project
and created an API with a kind.
Now it's time for us to populate the CRD,
so we can start providing the custom resource
for our controller to handle.
Okay, in your IDE, I want you to start by opening up
the API, v1alpha1, and the object store types.
Now here's where we're going to go out
and actually define our object store.
So in the object store struct, there is a value called Foo.
We are going to replace that with a string,
and you need to do JSON serialization here.
We're also going to put a value of locked as a boolean.
And once again, it includes your JSON serialization.
So now that that is done,
let's jump over into our terminal,
and I want you to type make manifests.
So now back in your IDE, I want you to open up config,
CRD, bases, and then the object store YAML.
And you'll see that this is an actual
object store definition.
It talks about the group.
It talks about the kind,
and as you scroll down, you'll see some notes.
There is a description of the API version.
That's something that you can configure.
There's a description of the kind,
again, something else that you can customize.
But we get down here into the spec,
and you'll see that we have a locked value
here on line 39, and on line 41, we have name,
but we have a description that doesn't really make sense.
So let's go back into our object types,
and let's actually change this comment to match name.
And we're going to put in a value here
that kind of makes sense.
It doesn't have to be specific too much,
but it should make sense to your users.
And now we're going to do the same for locked.
Okay, so now that we've done that,
we're going to go back into our terminal,
and we're going to make manifests again.
Go back into our IDE, back into object store,
and you'll see that now our description
matches the text we typed.
So that is something very important
when you're building a controller.
You really want to be as specific as you can
with your descriptions,
'cause that's what developers are going to see.
So back to the terminal once again.
We are now going to do a make install.
What this is going to do is it's actually going to
install the CRD into your Kubernetes environment
that you have configured in your kube config
as the default one being used.
So now that we do that,
I'm going to create an alias for Kubernetes.
Now I've got this alias defined.
Let me clear my screen here.
The command I'm going to use is alias K equals kubectl.
And I'm going to use this everywhere.
I've actually got this in my profile
but whenever I'm doing a K,
it's actually just kube cuddle is what I'm doing.
So I'm going to do a K get CRD, and you'll see
that we have a CRD defined in our infrastructure,
and that matches the values that we would expect.
So I can now do a K describe CRD.
And I'm just going to copy this value here.
And you'll see that the CRD matches what we saw in our IDE,
as we might expect.
It's actually just been installed into here.
Now, having the CRD is great,
but let's do something with it.
So jump back into your IDE,
and I want you to go into your samples
and open up this sample,
and we're going to modify this a little bit.
The first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to change the name of this.
And I'm going to encourage you to change this name
to something that makes sense to you.
I am going to call this FPMLIL-01.
Now in my spec, I am going to create a name element.
And the name element that I am going to use is
FPMLIL live EXTK8S-01.
Now this needs to be very unique,
because this is going to create the bucket with this name.
As such, it has to be globally unique.
So this will work for me.
I'm also going to set the value of locked equal to false.
Now, once that's done, I want to jump back into my console,
and I am going to do a K create NS LIL.
So I'm going to create a namespace in Kubernetes called LIL.
Now I'm going to do a K apply dash N LIL dash F config samples,
and then this value.
We'll let that be applied to Kubernetes.
So now I can do a K get OBJ store,
which is the name of my kind in LIL.
And you'll see that I have have one out there
that I just created.
So now what I want to do is I want to do a describe on this.
So we're going to do a describe on object store
FPMLIL-01 -N LIL.
And you'll see that this matches what we just entered,
and that's what we would expect it to do.
So this spec down there has the name and the locked value.
And the final thing that I want to do is I want to do a delete
on the object store -N LIL, FPMLIL-01.
And now I can do a K get object store -N LIL.
And you'll see we have none there,
which is what we would expect.
So we've created the CRD.
We've created the CR to go with it,
and we've applied it, viewed it, and deleted it
from the name space that we're using.